Pick code style for bitwise flags, enums and defines (#10876)
ddnet/ddnet: CONTRIBUTING.md

};
```

Also do **not** use `enum` or `enum class` for flags. See the next section instead.
`enum class` should only be used for enumerations. Constants with a typed value should use `constexpr` instead.

### Bitwise flags

The current code uses a lot of `enum` for that. But new code should use `static constexpr` for bitwise flags!

❌ Avoid:

```cpp
enum
{
	CFGFLAG_SAVE = 0,
	CFGFLAG_CLIENT = 2,
	CFGFLAG_SERVER = 4,
	CFGFLAG_STORE = 8,
	CFGFLAG_MASTER = 16,
	CFGFLAG_ECON = 32,
};
```

✅ Instead do:

```cpp
static constexpr uint32_t CFGFLAG_SAVE = 1 << 0;
static constexpr uint32_t CFGFLAG_CLIENT = 1 << 1;
static constexpr uint32_t CFGFLAG_SERVER = 1 << 2;
static constexpr uint32_t CFGFLAG_STORE = 1 << 3;
static constexpr uint32_t CFGFLAG_MASTER = 1 << 4;

> static constexpr uint32_t CFGFLAG_ECON = 1 << 5;

Reviewer: Also, if they're constant and in a header file, maybe `inline` instead of `static`, so they have only 1 definition across files?
Same as in https://github.com/ddnet/ddnet/blob/master/src/base/types.h#L47

Reviewer 2: Yeah, should use `inline` instead of `static`. That would probably avoid the `[[maybe_unused]]` for font icons:

```cpp
[[maybe_unused]] static const char *FONT_ICON_PLUS = "+";
```

> static constexpr uint32_t CFGFLAG_ECON = 1 << 5;

Author: Yea I thought about it but not sure. I assume it will be the most size optimal. But will all the flags have the same type then? Idk c++ but in my head it either slows down compilation or we get compiler warnings when the low flags only have 8 bits and the high flags have 32 bits.

I am scared of magic. But if anyone is confident about it let's do it.

> static constexpr uint32_t CFGFLAG_ECON = 1 << 5;

Reviewer 2: Addendum about string constants like the font icons:

```cpp
namespace FontIcons {
[[maybe_unused]] static const char *FONT_ICON_PLUS = "+";
...
} // end namespace FontIcons
```

These are pointers through which the object being pointed to cannot be modified, but the pointer itself can be. So someone could plant a `FONT_ICON_PLUS = nullptr;` anywhere in the code, which would break the constant (if declared as `static` then only for that translation unit, if declared `inline` then globally).

The cleaned-up font icons would look like this to me:

```cpp
namespace FontIcons {
inline const char *const FONT_ICON_PLUS = "+";
...
} // end namespace FontIcons
```

```

### `#define`

Avoid `#define` for constants. Use `enum class` or `static constexpr` instead.

> Only use `#define` if there is no other option.

Reviewer 2: I'd also make this section broader as in `Using the C preprocessor should be avoided`.

};
```

Also do **not** use `enum` or `enum class` for flags. See the next section instead.
`enum class` should only be used for enumerations. Constants with a typed value should use `constexpr` instead.

### Bitwise flags

> The current code uses a lot of `enum` for that. But new code should use `static constexpr` for bitwise flags!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The current code uses a lot of `enum` for that. But new code should use `inline constexpr` for bitwise flags!
```

❌ Avoid:

```cpp
enum
{
	CFGFLAG_SAVE = 0,
	CFGFLAG_CLIENT = 2,
	CFGFLAG_SERVER = 4,
	CFGFLAG_STORE = 8,
	CFGFLAG_MASTER = 16,
	CFGFLAG_ECON = 32,
};
```

✅ Instead do:

```cpp
namespace ConfigFlag {
inline constexpr uint32_t SAVE = 1 << 0;
inline constexpr uint32_t CLIENT = 1 << 1;
inline constexpr uint32_t SERVER = 1 << 2;
inline constexpr uint32_t STORE = 1 << 3;
inline constexpr uint32_t MASTER = 1 << 4;
inline constexpr uint32_t ECON = 1 << 5;
} // end namespace ConfigFlag
```

### Using the C preprocessor should be avoided

> - Avoid `#define` for constants. Use `enum class` or `static constexpr` instead.
>   Only use `#define` if there is no other option.
> - Avoid macros

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Avoid object-like `#define` directives for constants. Use `enum class` or `inline constexpr` instead.
  Only use object-like `#define` directives if there is no other option (e.g. for conditional compilation).
- Avoid function-like `#define` directives. If possible, extract code into functions or lambda expressions instead of macros.
   Only use function-like `#define` directives if there is no other, more readable option.
```

Terminology from https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/preprocessor/replace

};
```

Also do **not** use `enum` or `enum class` for flags. See the next section instead.
`enum class` should only be used for enumerations. Constants with a typed value should use `constexpr` instead.

### Bitwise flags

The current code uses a lot of `enum` for that. But new code should use `inline constexpr` for bitwise flags!

❌ Avoid:

```cpp
enum
{
	CFGFLAG_SAVE = 0,
	CFGFLAG_CLIENT = 2,
	CFGFLAG_SERVER = 4,
	CFGFLAG_STORE = 8,
	CFGFLAG_MASTER = 16,
	CFGFLAG_ECON = 32,
};
```

✅ Instead do:

```cpp
namespace ConfigFlag {
inline constexpr uint32_t SAVE = 1 << 0;
inline constexpr uint32_t CLIENT = 1 << 1;
inline constexpr uint32_t SERVER = 1 << 2;
inline constexpr uint32_t STORE = 1 << 3;
inline constexpr uint32_t MASTER = 1 << 4;

> inline constexpr uint32_t ECON = 1 << 5;

Reviewer 3: Not indenting this looks weird to me.

I think the argument for not indenting namespaces is usually that they cover the whole file. But here, we define something that is functionally equivalent to an `enum`, so I'd indent it.

> inline constexpr uint32_t ECON = 1 << 5;

Author: I doubt that is something that can be enforced with clang format. Having both indent and not.

> inline constexpr uint32_t ECON = 1 << 5;

Author: This code snippet follows the currently used and enforced style. If you want to challenge that I would say it is out of scope for this pr. You could open a new issue for it c:

> inline constexpr uint32_t ECON = 1 << 5;

Author: They are formatted according to our current style guide. I do not think we should indent all namespaces.

> inline constexpr uint32_t ECON = 1 << 5;

Reviewer 3: Our current style guide didn't need to consider `namespace`s as `enum` replacements.

> inline constexpr uint32_t ECON = 1 << 5;

Author: I run the new clang format with indention on it.

> } // end namespace ConfigFlag

Reviewer 3: Comes from @Robyt3's suggestion above. I wouldn't add it.

> } // end namespace ConfigFlag

Reviewer 2: I took it from one of the few examples of a namespace in our code, where it was added in df48c44e78e9a70ca7431010c412d5e3d2d03879.

Doesn't seem necessary though if we instead indent the elements in the namespace. (Which is not done anywhere in the code yet.)

> } // end namespace ConfigFlag

Reviewer 2: If this comment is enforced by clang-format/tidy and we don't want it, then we should remove it separately first.

> } // end namespace ConfigFlag

Reviewer 2: I can't find a clang-format option to remove the comments explicitly. You can set `FixNamespaceComments: false` to disable checking them, but that doesn't enforce their removal.

> } // end namespace ConfigFlag

Reviewer 3: Simply removing them should work.

> } // end namespace ConfigFlag

Reviewer 2: Removed them in #11008.

> } // end namespace ConfigFlag

Reviewer 3: Should be removed here as well, thn.

> } // end namespace ConfigFlag

Author: done

```

### Using the C preprocessor should be avoided

> - Avoid object-like `#define` directives for constants. Use `enum class` or `inline constexpr` instead.

Author: :shrug:

> - Avoid object-like `#define` directives for constants. Use `enum class` or `inline constexpr` instead.

Reviewer 2: Seems fine to remove "object-like" here, but then also change "Only use object-like `#define` directives if ..." on the next line to "Only use `#define` directives for constants if ..."

> - Avoid object-like `#define` directives for constants. Use `enum class` or `inline constexpr` instead.

Reviewer 2: > Keep function-like?

Seems fine to me according to @heinrich5991's comment above:

> Function-like could be inferred from context for me.
